ask.UWindsor - Support Home Page Skip Navigation FUTURE STUDENTS STUDENT LIFE Overview Athletics + Recreation Services Lancers Varsity Sports University Players SoCA Concerts & Events Student Accessibility Services Events Calendar Residence Food Services Student Support RESEARCH Overview Vice-President, Research & Innovation Research & Innovation Services Research appointments Research Ethics Research Safety Animal Care Research Finance Leddy Library UWill Discover! EPICentre ACADEMICS PROGRAMS Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs International Programs Continuing Education Registrar's Office FACULTIES Arts, Humanities + Social Sciences Law Education Nursing Engineering Business Graduate Studies Human Kinetics Science ACADEMIC SUPPORT Office of the Registrar Student Awards Office of the Provost ABOUT Overview Senior Administration Virtual Tour Visitor Information Campus Maps Parking VIEW Magazine CURRENT STUDENTS ? ALUMNI + DONORS ? FACULTY + STAFF ? ASK.UWINDSOR SEARCH ABOUT ACADEMICS RESEARCH STUDENT LIFE CURRENT STUDENTS ALUMNI + DONORS FACULTY + STAFF ASK.UWINDSOR FUTURE STUDENTS Your browser either does not have JavaScript enabled or does not appear to support enough features of JavaScript to be used well on this site. Sign in or Sign up Search Find articles for Screen Reader users press enter to select a all students. all students This button does not work with screen readers. Please use the previous link instead. all students Screen Reader users press enter to select a all topics. all topics This button does not work with screen readers. Please use the previous link instead. all topics Search by Keyword Search Welcome to ask.UWindsor, we're here to help. Search our ?knowledge articles? for information or ask a question for our dedicated staff to answer. COVID-19 Popular Articles How do I submit my official transcripts for admission processing or registration confirmation? Under the COVID-19 circumstances, if you are required to provide an official transcript to UWindsor, the Office of the Registrar will accept official transcripts emailed directly from other secondary and post-secondary institutions to... If I am an international student, do I need a Travel Letter of Support to travel to Canada? (COVID-19) No, a Letter of Support is no longer required for entry into Canada. International students are encouraged to travel with physical copies of the following items: A copy of your Letter of Admission (LOA) to the University of... How do I report that I am ill and will be unable to complete an assessment on time or to take an exam for a specific course? All students (except those in the JD and Dual JD programs as well as clinical Nursing courses, field placement Social Work courses, and Faculty of Education students during their practicum placements, are asked to follow their faculty's and/or... Show more COVID-19 Answers All Popular Articles What programs do you offer? Undergraduate Programs The University of Windsor offers more than 200 undergraduate programs, which all our programs combine both academic and relevant experience to prepare you to gain a competitive advantage in the... How do I sign in to UWinsite Student? To sign in to UWinsite Student 1. In your web browser, preferably Google Chrome, go to www.uwindsor.ca/uwinsitestudent. 2. Click the blue SIGN IN TO UWINSITE STUDENT button. 3. On the Sign in screen, enter (or select)... How do I activate my UWin Account for the first time? Your UWin Account is your personal digital identification for accessing several online services at UWindsor. Applicants need to activate their UWin Account prior to accessing UWinsite Student (undergraduates) or eGAS (graduates). To... How do I change my name with UWindsor? Preferred First Name UWindsor recognizes that some students prefer to be addressed by names other than their legal first names. For this reason, the university allows you to designate a preferred first name. For example: A student?s legal name is... What is the UWindsor Tuition Guarantee? The University of Windsor?s Tuition Guarantee allows ALL international students to be assured of their tuition by seeing stability in base tuition for their program duration. Please note: this excludes those covered by the US... How do I provide my Social Insurance Number (SIN)? A student?s Social Insurance Number (SIN) is required by UWindsor for: Processing of Ontario Student Assistance Program (OSAP) applications and the distribution of funding; Preparation of income tax documents for all students awarded a... How do I view my offer of admission to an undergraduate program at UWindsor? Undergraduate applicants can view their offer of admission to the University of Windsor in UWinsite Student. To locate your offer of admission: 1. In your web browser, preferably Google Chrome, go to?www.u... How do I receive an Enrolment Verification letter? Proof of enrolment is often required by financial institutions, government agencies, insurance companies or employers. The University of Windsor offers an Enrolment Verification Letter (no charge) and an Enrolment Certificate. Please... How do I know when to register for classes? You will be assigned a registration appointment time based on your program and level of study. Your registration appointment time is when you can start to enroll in classes through UWinsite Student. As a registration period approaches, you have a couple... How do I apply to graduate? You must apply to graduate through UWinsite Student whether or not you plan to attend a Convocation ceremony. If you do not apply to graduate, you will not receive your diploma or degree notation on your final transcript. The application to... Show more Published Answers Do you have a technology related question? UWin Account sign in questions? MFA issues? Other IT challenges? Please contact the IT Service Desk by opening a ticket or visiting our Live Chat. IT Service Desk Future Students Ask your questions in real time to our Student Ambassadors during the hours listed below. Live Chat Future Students chat hours are: Monday - Thursday: 1:00 PM - 4:00 PM EST International Course-Based Masters chat hours are: Monday and Thursday 12:30 PM - 7:30 PM EST Tuesday 9:00 AM - 7:30 PM EST Wednesday and Friday 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM EST It is currently Monday, Apr 04, 2022 03:31 PM EDT Contact Us University Directory Accessibility Services News Services for Media UWindsor mobile apps Terms & Conditions Emergency Services for Students