Chemical Control Centre Skip to main content Coming to campus? Visit this page for important information. University of Windsor Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Search Support UWindsor CLOSE QUICK LINKS Return to Campus Roadmap for Fall Current Students Blackboard UWinsite Student Faculty + Staff UWinsite Finance Alumni + Donors Industry + Community Partners About About UWindsor Office of the President Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Virtual Tour Visitor Information Campus Maps Parking VIEW Magazine Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs International Programs Co-operative Education Continuing Education Support Office of the Registrar Student Awards Office of the Provost Faculties Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences Law Education Nursing Engineering Business Graduate Studies Human Kinetics Science Research COVID-19 Research and Innovation Guidance Vice-President, Research & Innovation Research & Innovation Services Research Partnerships Research Appointments Research Ethics Research Safety Animal Care Research Finance Leddy Library UWill Discover! EPICentre Student Life About Student Life UWindsor Events SoCA Concerts & Events Lancers Varsity Sports University Players Athletics + Recreation Services Student Accessibility Services Residence Food Services Student Support Back to Top FUTURE STUDENTS ask.UWindsor MENU ask.UWindsor FUTURE STUDENTS Chemical Control Centre In this section Welcome to the CCC Safety Programs Chemical Stock Room Required Training Research Safety Committee Spill Response Waste Management Contact Us Welcome to the CCC Safety Programs Chemical Stock Room Required Training Research Safety Committee Spill Response Waste Management Contact Us UWindsor Home Chemical Control Centre Welcome to the CCC Welcome to the CCC Welcome to the Chemical Control Centre The University of Windsor's one-stop source for hazardous materials on campus. Our Hours of Operation Our staffed hours will vary to reflect the changing provincial and municipal regulations concerning COVID-19. Please contact us via email or phone if you require on-site services. Please email your order requests to ccc@uwindsor.ca. Purchase Requisition Form Stock Item Order Form PPE Order Form COVID-19 Prevention Measures The most effective ways to reduce the spread of illness are staying home as much as possible, frequent handwashing, and physical distancing. In cases where physical distancing is difficult, Public Health Agency of Canada is recommending the use of masks. Mask Usage The proper use of a non-medical mask (e.g. cloth mask) is an additional measure to prevent the spread of illness. How to put on a non-medical mask or face covering (Source: Canada Public Health) Ensure the face covering is clean and dry. Wash your hands with warm water and soap for at least 20 seconds before touching the mask. If none is available, use hand sanitizer containing at least 60% alcohol. Ensure your hair is away from your face. Place the face covering over your nose and mouth and secure to your head or ears with its ties or elastics. Adjust if needed to ensure nose and mouth are fully covered. The mask should fit snugly to the cheeks and there should not be any gaps. Wash your hands or use alcohol-based hand sanitizer after adjusting your mask. While wearing a non-medical mask or face covering, it is important to avoid touching your face. If you do touch your mask or face, you should immediately wash your hands with warm water and soap for at least 20 seconds, or use a hand sanitizer containing at least 60% alcohol. How to remove a non-medical mask or face covering Wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If none is available, use hand sanitizer with a minimum 60% alcohol base. Remove the face covering by un-tying it or removing the loops from your ears. Avoid touching the front of the mask when removing it. Dispose of masks properly in a lined garbage bin after use. The mask can be placed and sealed in a plastic bag temporarily until it can be properly disposed. After removing the face covering, wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. or hand sanitizer with a minimum 60% alcohol base. How to wear a fabric mask Our Mission The mission of the CCC is to promote the safe use of hazardous materials by the University community through organised acquisition, distribution, disposal and training services. Our Values & Guiding Principles Approachable Collaboration Expertise Safety Service Our Services Chemical Stock Room Laboratory Safety Training and Manuals Hazardous Waste Management Our Hours of Operation The Chemical Control Centre is open Monday - Friday 8:30am - 12:00pm and 1:00pm - 4:30pm Our on-site hours will vary to reflect the changing provincial and municipal regulations concerning COVID-19. Please contact us via email or phone if you require on-site services. Contact the Chemical Control Centre If you have any questions or require further information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Chemical Control Centre Office: B37 Essex Hall Phone: (519) 253-3000 ext. 3523 Fax: (519) 973-7013 Email: ccc@uwindsor.ca share tweet save Resources Hazardous Materials Information System Safety Data Sheets Available Training Available Manuals share tweet save Contact Us University Directory Accessibility News Services for Media UWindsor mobile apps Terms & Conditions Policies Manage UWin Account Emergency Services for Students Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on Flickr Follow us on Youtube Follow us on Instagram