International Students - Canadian Education, Global Perspective - UWindsor <iframe src=" https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-M73XP8N" height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden"> The University of Windsor is preparing for a safe return to campus. Learn More. Support UWindsor Close QUICK LINKS Return to Campus Roadmap for Fall Current Students Blackboard UWinsite Student Faculty + Staff UWinsite Finance Alumni + Donors Industry + Community Partners About About UWindsor Office of the President Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Virtual Tour Visitor Information Campus Maps Parking VIEW Magazine Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs International Programs Co-operative Education Continuing Education Support Office of the Registrar Financial Matters Office of the Provost Faculties Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences Law Education Nursing Engineering Business Graduate Studies Human Kinetics Science Research COVID-19 Research and Innovation Guidance Vice-President, Research & Innovation Research & Innovation Services Research Partnerships Research Appointments Research Ethics Research Safety Animal Care Research Finance Leddy Library UWill Discover! EPICentre Student Life About Student Life UWindsor Events SoCA Concerts & Events Lancers Varsity Sports University Players Athletics + Recreation Services Student Accessibility Services Residence Food Services Student Support Back to Top Menu Search ask.UWindsor Future Students World-Class Education Stay Connected Explore Programs Tours Plus March Break 2022 Sign-Up Now Have a day off high school coming up? Come for a campus tour! Get a $25 Gift card for Lancer Gear or Food on Campus Coming from outside Windsor-Essex? Get a $25 Gas card to help with travel expenses Space is limited, Fall 2022 Undergraduate Applicants will get priority Sign-up Now Ask UWindsor Live Chat Start Your Lancer Journey HereStart Here Back to top 1. Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificate & Diploma Programs Continuing Education Transfer Students International Students Tuition / Fee Estimator Student Support Services Residence & Food Services Experiential Learning & Co-op 2. Connect (NEW) Request Custom Viewbook Request Program Information Request Materials Meet our Recruitment Team Live Chat Awards & Financial Aid Meet our Student Ambassadors 3. Visit Book a Campus Tour Virtual Campus Tour Student Experience 4. Apply Undergraduate International Graduate Education Law Continuing Education English Pathway Program Transfer Student Mature Student Part-time Student 5. You're In! Next Steps Plan Your Program Head Start Orientation Welcome Week Pay Tuition Campus Map Virtual Campus Tour Helpful Links Important Dates Live Chat Ask.UWindsor Virtual Campus Tour Close Select your region Learn about the connections between UWinsor and the regions our students call home. Region South Asia West Africa China Korea East Africa Europe and Central Asia Southeastern Asia Latin America Submit Why the university of Windsor? Safe, welcoming and diverse community ? Windsor is the fourth most diverse city in Canada On and off campus job opportunities, with dedicated career officers to help students prepare Affordable living costs and tuition costs Smaller classes with the ability to connect to faculty and staff English language improvement programs available National leaders in providing research opportunities for undergraduate students Over 200 programs, including ones in Engineering, Science, Computer Science and Business Explore our Programs Stay Connected to UWindsor Explore UWindsor's Campus Virtual Campus Tour: Explore UWindsor right from your home Experiential Learning through co-op, internships and volunteering Great pathways for immigration to Canada Universitas21 ranks Canada seventh overall for higher education system When you choose a University, you're also choosing a home Why a Canadian Education? Oh, Canada! Canada is a beautiful country that year after year is named the best country in the world for quality of life. Warm Climate Windsor is Canada's southernmost city, located on the same latitude as Rome and Northern California. Comfort & Safety Diverse, safe and inclusive communities with affordable living costs and tuition. What program is right for you? Find the program that is right for you by selecting the personality traits that describe you best. Artistic Artistic People who are creative, sensitive, articulate, expressive, innovative, and inspiring. You've selected the Artistic personality trait Conventional Conventional People who are conscientious, logical, organized, thorough, and detail-oriented. You've selected the Conventional personality trait Enterprising Enterprising People who are adventurous, ambitious, assertive, extroverted, enthusiastic, and persuasive. You've selected the Enterprising personality trait Investigative Investigative People who are intellectual, introspective, inquisitive, methodical, and analytical. You've selected the Investigative personality trait Realistic Realistic People who are independent, stable, persistent, practical, athletic, mechanical, and down-to-earth. You've selected the Realistic personality trait Social Social People who are kind, generous, cooperative, patient, empathetic, tactful, and friendly. You've selected the Social personality trait Explore programs Student Spotlight See what other international students say about life at the University of Windsor. The International Students Centre (ISC) helped ease the transition when coming to the University of Windsor. The ISC often hosts events for international students to get acquainted, share their experiences and learn about Canadian culture. Staying in residence was also helpful with the transition to Canada. I was able to connect with other students and get familiar with the campus. I even worked for residence services. This enhanced my communication skills and allowed me to gain some valuable work experience. Chelsea Okonji Lagos, Nigeria I have taken advantage of the services available at the Student Success Centre by booking monthly appointments with my Academic Advisors. These appointments allowed me to speak about my schedule, courses, and time management strategy. Having someone to follow up with my progress was helpful because I improved my skills through the resources provided. This is one of the many UWindsor services that helped me enhance in my academic experience. Zeenat Hirani Kinshasa, Congo My University of Windsor experience has been exceptional. The teaching is incredible with amazing engineering facilities and superior support from faculty members. Whether for a final year project or a simple question in the class, a faculty member will always be there to help. The University of Windsor campus is so vibrant that I never feel like I'm far away from home. Aditya Vyas Vadodara, India I believe that the University of Windsor prepared me for entering the workforce and I credit the renowned co-op program for giving me the skills and experience to succeed in a post-graduate world. My advice to incoming international students is to make meaningful connections (both personal and professional) whether it be through co-op or joining clubs on campus, and take advantage of all the resources the University has to offer as they will set you up for success in the future. Jai Priyadarshi Delhi, India I came to the University of Windsor to obtain my Master of Engineering degree. I gained the necessary industry skills and knowledge from the courses that helped me excel in my current field of work. The resources that helped me succeed in my university career are the International Student Centre (ISC) and Career Development Services (CDEL), as they assisted with work permits, Visa's and strengthening my resume and cover letter. My advice to incoming international students is to gain as much work experience in Canada as possible and to utilize UWindsor's on-campus resources to succeed. Zachary Zhang Beijing, China When I was deciding where to study in Canada it was clear that studying at the University of Windsor would be one of the best decisions I would ever make. I learned so much and grew in many ways and I look forward to giving back to my community. I participated in the Ignite Work Study program where I worked at the International Student Centre. This gave me insight into a lot of resources available at the University. I also used the career advising resources at the Odette School of Business, where I was given the tools to succeed in the Canadian workplace. My advice is to ensure your resume and cover letter are well written and meet the Canadian standard and gain Canadian work-related experience by volunteering in any capacity. Precious Chinenye Akpunonu Nigeria Previous Next UWindsor Applying to a program can be a confusing process, we made this section to help you along the way. If at any point you need help, reach out to a recruitment team member for your region or an Educational Agent! ask.UWindsor. Undergraduate Apply to an Undergraduate Program Ways to Apply There are three ways to apply to the University of Windsor?s undergraduate programs: Apply Directly to UWindsor Use this application if ALL the following criteria apply: You reside OUTSIDE of Canada or the United States You are NOT a Canadian citizen or permanent resident You are NOT currently attending an Ontario secondary school in Ontario or abroad The only Ontario university to which you are applying is UWindsor Start your application now online Apply via the Ontario Universities? Application Centre (OUAC) Use this application if: You are NOT currently attending an Ontario secondary school You are planning to apply to more than one Ontario university Start your application now online Apply through an Authorized Educational Agent Open a full listing of our agents and the countries they represent. If you do not see your country on this list, please contact us at agent@uwindsor.ca. NOTE: You DO NOT need to meet the English proficiency requirements at the time of application. The University of Windsor provides conditional letters of admission for students who do not meet the English proficiency requirement with the intent the student will satisfy the requirement by participating in our English Pathway Program (ELIP) or by another means prior to starting their academic program. Recommended Application Deadlines Recommended application deadlines for UWindsor?s undergraduate programs are: May 1 for September admissions (Fall) Sept 1 for January admissions (Winter) Jan 1 for May admissions (Spring) The above application deadlines are recommended to best ensure your program choice is available and enough time is available for student VISA processing. UWindsor does, however, admit qualified students after the deadlines listed above, if the program has available space. Admission Requirements Admission requirements for UWindsor?s undergraduate programs can be found in our Academic Calendar. What to Expect Next After submitting your application form, you can expect to receive an application acknowledgement email within five business days. This email will include instructions for (1) activating your UWin Account and (2) accessing UWinsite Student, UWindsor?s student information platform. Once you have accessed UWinsite Student, you will need to respond to the items in your To Do List, including uploading the following documents: Your official senior secondary education diploma* Your official senior secondary education transcripts* Your official post-secondary education diploma (if applicable)* Your official post-secondary education transcripts (if applicable)* Proof of your English language proficiency Your Portfolio (if applicable) Course descriptions* (only required if you are also applying for credit transfer) * Translation is needed if the official documents are not in English and must be provided by an official translation service such as: (1) World Educational Service or (2) International Education Research Foundation. After your documents have been received, they will be verified by UWindsor?s Office of the Registrar and the items on your To Do List in UWinsite Student marked as ?Completed.? It is only at this point ? when all your documentation has been submitted and is in order ? that evaluation of your application will begin. Evaluation, if there are no unique circumstances which require further analysis, may take up to four weeks. You can monitor the status of your application in UWinsite Student. You will also be notified by email when a decision has been made. Graduate Apply to a Graduate Program Ways to Apply There are two ways to apply to the University of Windsor?s graduate programs: Apply Directly to UWindsor To apply directly to a UWindsor graduate program: Carefully read UWindsor?s graduate application steps Start your online application Apply through an Authorized Educational Agent Open a full listing of our agents and the countries they represent. If you do not see your country on this list, please contact us at agent@uwindsor.ca. Application Deadlines Application deadlines for UWindsor?s graduate programs vary per program. Please check the profile for the graduate program(s) in which you are interested for specific dates. It is recommended international applicants apply 8-12 months prior to the start of the program. Admission Requirements Please check the profile for the graduate program(s) in which you are interested for admission requirements, including English proficiency. What to Expect Next After submitting your application form, you can expect to receive an application acknowledgement email within two business days. This email will include instructions for (1) activating your UWin Account and (2) accessing eGAS, the University of Windsor?s electronic graduate application system. Once you have accessed eGAS, you will need to upload your required documents in PDF format. All documents must be submitted in English. Translation is needed if the official documents are not in English and must be provided by an official translation service such as: (1) World Educational Service or (2) International Education Research Foundation. After your application is complete and submitted, your application status in eGAS will change to ?All Documents Received.? Once your file has been sent for review, its status will change to ?In Process.? Application processing time varies by program. You will be notified by email when a decision has been made. Certificate Program Apply to a Certificate Program Ways to Apply There are three ways to apply to the University of Windsor?s certificate programs: Apply Directly to UWindsor Use this application if ALL the following criteria apply: You reside OUTSIDE of Canada or the United States You are NOT a Canadian citizen or permanent resident You are NOT currently attending an Ontario secondary school in Ontario or abroad The only Ontario university to which you are applying is UWindsor Start your application now online Apply via the Ontario Universities? Application Centre (OUAC) Use this application if: You are NOT currently attending an Ontario secondary school You are planning to apply to more than one Ontario university Start your application now online Apply through an Authorized Educational Agent Open a full listing of our agents and the countries they represent. If you do not see your country on this list, please contact us at agent@uwindsor.ca. NOTE: You DO NOT need to meet the English proficiency requirements at the time of application. The University of Windsor provides conditional letters of admission for students who do not meet the English proficiency requirement with the intent the student will satisfy the requirement by participating in our English Pathway Program (ELIP) or by another means prior to starting their academic program. Recommended Application Deadlines Recommended application deadlines for UWindsor?s certificate programs are: May 1 for September admissions (Fall) Sept 1 for January admissions (Winter) Jan 1 for May admissions (Spring) The above application deadlines are recommended to best ensure your program choice is available and enough time is available for student VISA processing. UWindsor does, however, admit qualified students after the deadlines listed above, if the program has available space. Admission Requirements Admission requirements for UWindsor?s certificate programs can be found in our Academic Calendar. What to Expect Next After submitting your application form, you can expect to receive an application acknowledgement email within five business days. This email will include instructions for (1) activating your UWin Account and (2) accessing UWinsite Student, UWindsor?s student information platform. Once you have accessed UWinsite Student, you will need to respond to the items in your To Do List, including uploading the following documents: Your official senior secondary education diploma* Your official senior secondary education transcripts* Your official post-secondary education diploma (if applicable)* Your official post-secondary education transcripts (if applicable)* Proof of your English language proficiency Your Portfolio (if applicable) Course descriptions* (only required if you are also applying for credit transfer) * Translation is needed if the official documents are not in English and must be provided by an official translation service such as: (1) World Educational Service or (2) International Education Research Foundation. After your documents have been received, they will be verified by UWindsor?s Office of the Registrar and the items on your To Do List in UWinsite Student marked as ?Completed.? It is only at this point ? when all your documentation has been submitted and is in order ? that evaluation of your application will begin. Evaluation, if there are no unique circumstances which require further analysis, may take up to four weeks. You can monitor the status of your application in UWinsite Student. You will also be notified by email when a decision has been made. English Pathway Program Apply to our English Pathway Program Meet the International Student Recruitment team We're here to help you along the way on your journey to becoming a UWindsor Lancer! Neharika Kataria Student Recruitment Advisor (South Asia) neharika.kataria@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment Feona Matei Julius Student Recruitment Advisor (East Africa) feona.julius@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment Karibo Joy Ekeopara Student Recruitment Advisor (West Africa) karibo.ekeopara@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment Peter Petrichev Student Recruitment Advisor (Europe and Central Asia) peter.petrichev@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment Yunfang Bai (Margaret) Student Recruitment Advisor (Eastern Asia - China) yunfang.bai@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment Pham Tra My (Jessica) Student Recruitment Advisor (Southeastern Asia) my.pham@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment Jieun Kwon (Jinny) Student Recruitment Advisor (Eastern Asia - Korea) jkwon@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment Sahil Chawla Student Recruitment Advisor (South Asia - Pakistan) sahil.chawla@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment Martha Kerube Euceda Carias Student Recruitment Advisor (Latin America) martha.eucedacarias@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment Nema Reshamvala Student Recruitment Advisor (Middle East) nema.reshamvala@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment Tracy Beemer International Enrolment Advisor (Canada & USA) tbeemer@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment Deena Wang Manager, International Recruitment and Partnership deenaw@uwindsor.ca Book an appointment CONTACT AN AUTHORIZED EDUCATIONAL AGENT Our educational agents are available to help to apply to your program of interest at UWindsor and are trained in our processes and procedures. They can also help you through the process of getting a permit to study in Canada. Open a full listing of our agents and the countries they represent. We're here to help! Windsor is committed to assisting you through your academic journey. Our support and services start once you apply. Learn more about the ways we offer assistance to international students below. UWindsor International Tuition Guarantee The University of Windsor?s Tuition Guarantee allows ALL international students (excluding those covered by the US Neighbour rate) to be assured of their tuition by seeing stability in base tuition for their program duration. Learn More English Language Improvement Program International students who do not meet the English language proficiency requirement may be accepted into their program on the condition they complete the English Language Improvement Program (ELIP) before starting their degree. Apply to ELIP Learn More about ELIP International Student Centre The ISC provides a variety of quality services and programs to support almost 4,000 UWindsor international students, scholars, and their family members from over 92 different countries. Tell me more about ISC Helpful Links & Resources Learn more about the University of Windsor and steps to take to start your lancer journey! Immigration & Visa FAQs Scholarships & Bursaries On-Campus Living Upcoming Events Virtual Campus Tour Working While Studying Off Campus Housing Health Plans & Services Pre-arrival Information Arrival Information Inviting Your Family to Canada Questions? Need Help? If you're having a hard time figuring out how to apply or if you're not sure if you're on the right track, reach out to us for help! Ask a question through Live Chat Talk to a Local Representative Search our knowledge base articles @ ask.UWindsor Contact Us University Directory Accessibility News Services for Media UWindsor mobile apps Terms & Conditions Emergency Services for Students Tell Me More About UWindsor ? First Name* Last Name Email Address* Mobile Phone* By submitting this form, you are giving your consent for the University of Windsor to contact you regarding our educational programs and services. You may unsubscribe at any time. Close