Mobile Apps for the Campus Community | University of Windsor Skip to main content Coming to campus? Visit this page for important information. University of Windsor Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Search Support UWindsor CLOSE QUICK LINKS Return to Campus Roadmap for Fall Current Students Blackboard UWinsite Student Faculty + Staff UWinsite Finance Alumni + Donors Industry + Community Partners About About UWindsor Office of the President Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Virtual Tour Visitor Information Campus Maps Parking VIEW Magazine Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs International Programs Co-operative Education Continuing Education Support Office of the Registrar Student Awards Office of the Provost Faculties Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences Law Education Nursing Engineering Business Graduate Studies Human Kinetics Science Research COVID-19 Research and Innovation Guidance Vice-President, Research & Innovation Research & Innovation Services Research Partnerships Research Appointments Research Ethics Research Safety Animal Care Research Finance Leddy Library UWill Discover! EPICentre Student Life About Student Life UWindsor Events SoCA Concerts & Events Lancers Varsity Sports University Players Athletics + Recreation Services Student Accessibility Services Residence Food Services Student Support Back to Top FUTURE STUDENTS ask.UWindsor MENU ask.UWindsor FUTURE STUDENTS University of Windsor Mobile Apps for the Campus Community Mobile Apps for the Campus Community Mobile technology can help you make the most of your University of Windsor experience ? from orientation to alumni engagement. To help you navigate campus life, the University has developed and maintains several applications or apps for your smartphone or mobile device. myUWindsor Put the University of Windsor experience in the palm of your hand with the myUWindsor application, offering convenience and accessibility with just one touch. Students can access UWinsite Student, add funds to their UWinCARD, and connect with the latest news and social events. Alumni and visitors can access the app to find a campus map, directory and more. The myUWindsor app allows the entire campus community to stay in touch. Need assistance with the myUWindsor app? Contact IT Services Helpdesk ? (519) 253-3000 ext. 4440. myUWindsor for Android (Google Play Store) myUWindsor for Apple (Apple App Store) CampusGo - Wayfinding App Download the all-new FREE app that makes navigating campus quick and easy, CampusGo! CampusGo is also available through your mobile device and or desktop browser. Accurate, convenient indoor and outdoor wayfinding of the UWindsor campus is at your fingertips. Search the campus directory, building and room list and go! Getting where you're going works just like GPS navigation with turn-by-turn directions directly to your destination. UWindsor CampusGo for Android (Google Play Store) UWindsor CampusGo for Apple (Apple App Store) UWindsor CampusGo for Desktop Browser UWindsor Connect Get connected at the University of Windsor with the UWindsor Connect app! Download the app to gain access to campus resources, events, and involvement opportunities, so you never have to miss out. Get a personalized view of your day-to-day & tailored recommendations to make the best of your academic experience. UWindsor Connect for Android (Google Play Store) UWindsor Connect for Apple (Apple App Store) Safe Lancer SAFE LANCER is an essential tool to enhance your safety at the University of Windsor. The app will alert you to any emergency situations and provides instant access to campus security resources. SAFE LANCER is the official mobile safety app of the University of Windsor. Download today and ensure that you?re prepared in the event of an emergency. SAFE LANCER for Android (Google Play Store) SAFE LANCER for Apple (Apple App Store) Lancer Athletics & Recreation Receive the latest information on the reopening of the St. Denis Centre, how to book an appointment to work out, virtual fitness and intramural schedules, varsity sport updates, and much more. Enable notifications to receive updates directly to your screen! A great way to stay connected to Lancer athletics and recreation during a time of physical distancing. Many resources are available to help keep you fit and healthy. Lancer Athletics & Rec app for Android (Google Play Store) Lancer Athletics & Rec app for Apple (Apple App Store) In addition, third-party apps connect with specific on-campus services. These apps were not developed, and are not maintained, by the University. The University of Windsor assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable for any damages whatsoever in connection with any third party software applications, access to those applications or any mishandling or misuse of your data therefrom. UWindsor YouVisit Explore the University of Windsor! Thinking of attending the University of Windsor? Prospective students and families can navigate the campus and learn about our unique programs and culture through self-guided tours. At home or on campus, our interactive student guide will accompany you as you explore our offerings through the use of the GPS-enabled campus map, student videos and photos. UWindsor YouVisit for Android (Google Play Store) Search for UWindsor YouVisit in the iTunes App Store Blackboard - Bb Student Bb Student is Blackboard?s newest mobile solution that helps students react quickly to their changing course needs while learning to plan for the future. With Bb Student, you can: Quickly view updates to your courses and content Take assignments and tests View course, assignment, and test grades Bb Student for Android (Google Play Store) Bb Student for Apple (Apple App Store) My SSP - keep.meSAFE Student Support Program (for International Students) Studying in another country can be a wonderful and exciting life experience. But it can also be a time of tremendous stress and isolation as you learn to navigate a new culture, language and campus. The keep.meSAFE Student Support Program is a support service available to international students that can help them with challenges faced when studying abroad. My SSP for Android (Google Play Store) My SSP for Apple (Apple App Store) Honk Mobile Honk Mobile allows users to find and pay for parking in campus lots through their smartphones or tablet computers. The free app lets drivers bypass the meters in pay-and-display lots, including the Askin, Assumption, Clark, Human Kinetics, Stadium and Union lots. You will receive an alert 15 minutes prior to the expiration of your parking session, giving you the opportunity to pay for additional time remotely. The app also stores and manages parking receipts. To download the app or learn more, visit www.honkmobile.com Key2Access The Key2Access mobile application helps users understand the world around them by giving cities and private organizations a platform to share location-specific information. From opening doors to getting information about what's around you, Key2Access has the solution to make any space more accessible, indoors or outdoors. The Key2access App is completely free for the user because equal access is not a privilege, it's a right. To download the app or learn more, visit www.key2access.com share tweet save share tweet save Contact Us University Directory Accessibility News Services for Media UWindsor mobile apps Terms & Conditions Policies Manage UWin Account Emergency Services for Students Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on Flickr Follow us on Youtube Follow us on Instagram