Office of the Provost and Vice-President, Academic Skip to main content Coming to campus? Visit this page for important information. University of Windsor Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Search Support UWindsor CLOSE QUICK LINKS Return to Campus Roadmap for Fall Current Students Blackboard UWinsite Student Faculty + Staff UWinsite Finance Alumni + Donors Industry + Community Partners About About UWindsor Office of the President Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Virtual Tour Visitor Information Campus Maps Parking VIEW Magazine Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs International Programs Co-operative Education Continuing Education Support Office of the Registrar Student Awards Office of the Provost Faculties Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences Law Education Nursing Engineering Business Graduate Studies Human Kinetics Science Research COVID-19 Research and Innovation Guidance Vice-President, Research & Innovation Research & Innovation Services Research Partnerships Research Appointments Research Ethics Research Safety Animal Care Research Finance Leddy Library UWill Discover! EPICentre Student Life About Student Life UWindsor Events SoCA Concerts & Events Lancers Varsity Sports University Players Athletics + Recreation Services Student Accessibility Services Residence Food Services Student Support Back to Top FUTURE STUDENTS ask.UWindsor MENU ask.UWindsor FUTURE STUDENTS UWindsor Home Office of the Provost and Vice-President, Academic Office of the Provost & Vice-President, Academic Office of the Provost & Vice-President, Academic AboutInitiativesNew Faculty/RecruitmentFaculty Admin. ProcessesPolicies+ProceduresSearch+Review CommitteesContact Register for Office of the Provost Events Here Description of Provost?s duties and responsibilities Interim Provost and Vice-President, Academic Patricia Weir is the senior academic officer of the University of Windsor who provides leadership for academic planning and administration. Her oversight encompasses the following areas: Teaching and Learning ? Student Experience ? Faculty Matters ? Curricula and Programs ? Student Advising ? Continuing Education ? Residences The Library ? Student Recruitment ? Information Technology ? Experiential Learning ? Strategic Enrolment Management ? International Development Provost?s Message Welcome to the Office of the Provost at the University of Windsor. The Office of the Provost is dedicated to supporting and enhancing the university?s academic mission ? education, scholarship, research, and engagement ? through commitment to high intellectual standards, human rights and freedoms, the centrality of the student experience, civility and respect, responsible stewardship and engagement with regard to issues of importance to the world and our communities, as well as the needs and rights of people, cultures, and the environment. This mission, and these commitments, form the basis of our work and our decision making. Three key priorities provide focal points for sustainable advancement of this mission: Reputation, Recruitment, and Retention. Related Links Academic Integrity Collective Agreement between the Faculty Association and the Board of Governors (2017-21) Freedom of Expression at the University of Windsor Institutional Quality Assurance Process at the University of Windsor Institutional Response to COVID-19 Quality Assurance Framework Ontario Universities Council on Quality Assurance Renewal, Tenure, and Promotion Frameworks Research Appointments Office of the Vice-President, Research and Innovation Resources for Departmental Heads Strategic Enrolment Management Strategic Mandate Agreement Office of the President Reputation Projects and initiatives that seek to ensure that excellence and innovation in all areas of the University?s academic mission is recognized, rewarded, and promoted, on and off campus, and around the world. Explore the life-changing learning and world-changing research happening now at the University of Windsor [.pdf]. Recruitment Projects and initiatives ? from new programs, to extraordinary experiences, to enhanced graduate opportunities, from evolving research synergies to community engagement, from new communications strategies to stronger networks ? that draw scholars, students, and staff and community members to the University of Windsor. Retention Projects and initiatives committed to ensuring that students, staff, and faculty can achieve their aspirations, and thrive and excel in all aspects of their learning, work, and life on campus. Projects that help people engage, persevere, and succeed. share tweet save share tweet save Contact Us University Directory Accessibility News Services for Media UWindsor mobile apps Terms & Conditions Policies Manage UWin Account Emergency Services for Students Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on Flickr Follow us on Youtube Follow us on Instagram