Return to Campus Skip to main content Coming to campus? Visit this page for important information. University of Windsor Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Search Support UWindsor CLOSE QUICK LINKS Return to Campus Roadmap for Fall Current Students Blackboard UWinsite Student Faculty + Staff UWinsite Finance Alumni + Donors Industry + Community Partners About About UWindsor Office of the President Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Virtual Tour Visitor Information Campus Maps Parking VIEW Magazine Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs International Programs Co-operative Education Continuing Education Support Office of the Registrar Student Awards Office of the Provost Faculties Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences Law Education Nursing Engineering Business Graduate Studies Human Kinetics Science Research COVID-19 Research and Innovation Guidance Vice-President, Research & Innovation Research & Innovation Services Research Partnerships Research Appointments Research Ethics Research Safety Animal Care Research Finance Leddy Library UWill Discover! EPICentre Student Life About Student Life UWindsor Events SoCA Concerts & Events Lancers Varsity Sports University Players Athletics + Recreation Services Student Accessibility Services Residence Food Services Student Support Back to Top FUTURE STUDENTS ask.UWindsor MENU ask.UWindsor FUTURE STUDENTS Return to Campus In this section Return to Campus Update: March 31, 2022 Wear a Mask Information for Students Information for Faculty Information for Staff Information about Research Latest News Available and Remote Campus Services Institutional Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic Health & Safety: COVID-19 Guidelines and Protocols Building and Facilities Protocols Vaccination Policy Take a Jab! Action Group Submit a Question Return to Campus Update: March 31, 2022 Wear a Mask Information for Students Information for Faculty Information for Staff Information about Research Latest News Available and Remote Campus Services Institutional Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic Health & Safety: COVID-19 Guidelines and Protocols Building and Facilities Protocols Vaccination Policy Take a Jab! Action Group Submit a Question UWindsor Home Return to Campus Return to Campus Life and Community Return to Campus Life and Community Return to Campus Update, March 31, 2022: A Message from President Gordon and Provost Weir How do you UWindsor? Click the appropriate box for specific information. The University of Windsor is excited to welcome back students, faculty and staff to a return of campus life and community. The University?s top priority is the health and safety of all of our students, faculty and staff. Robust safety plans and protocols have been in place since the beginning of the pandemic and are continually enhanced as part of our COVID-19 response. We remain flexible and responsive to evolving public health guidance as we return to campus life and community. With the return of students, faculty and staff, a range of health measures are in place to ensure the health and safety of the UWindsor community. Please review the actions the University is taking below, including: Mandatory COVID-19 vaccination for all employees, students, volunteers, contractors and visitors. Masks are required on-campus when entering all campus buildings and common spaces. Enhanced cleaning will continue daily across campus. Those coming to campus will be asked to complete the daily self-assessment questionnaire through the Safe Lancer App. The University promotes the importance of hand-washing and hygiene protocols. Broad Range of Course Delivery Modes Courses are delivered in a variety of formats including Face-to-Face, Online, Hybrid and Hy-Flex. Teaching and learning takes place in a variety of forms. Class size, format (lecture vs. labs), student population and facilities are just a few of the many factors UWindsor faculties are taking into account when deciding course delivery mode. UWindsor is committed to a flexible and safe approach while maximizing on-campus opportunities. Learn more. Safe Lancer App Mandatory self-screening prior to arrival on-campus through the Safe Lancer App. In addition, all students will be subject to screening spot checks across campus by assigned RTC Safety Ambassadors. Learn more. Zone and Flow Analysis Scrutinizing all campus spaces enabling faculty, staff and students to move freely while maintaining safe physical distancing. Workspaces have been reviewed to ensure positioning of furniture (desks, lab benches, cubicles, seating) allows for distancing of at least 2 metres (6 feet), where possible. Learn more. Vaccination Requirement & Promotion, Awareness Campaign and the use of Masks and Other PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) Throughout the pandemic, UWindsor has implemented robust health and safety protocols based on the advice of health authorities. In addition, UWindsor has announced mandatory COVID-19 vaccinations for employees, students, volunteers, contractors and visitors to campus. As per the University of Windsor mask policy, masks are required to be worn in campus buildings and classrooms. Those who have mask exemptions will be provided with alternate work/learning opportunities and will not be able to enter a campus building or classroom. Students who are unable to wear a mask are encouraged at registration to choose the online or hy-flex synchronous online / livestream online sections of courses and labs. In addition, masks are required in all campus buildings and in common spaces where physical distancing may be difficult (entrances, exits, hallways, stairwells, lounges, washrooms and elevators) HVAC and Water Building services and utilities are independently tested and outfitted with the latest safety and preventative measures through the development of extensive Safety Action Plans. COVID-19 Ventilation Strategy Water Safety Action Plan for COVID-19 Monitoring Wastewater Proactive testing and monitoring of wastewater in residences to detect presence of COVID-19 in sewage as an early warning system for COVID-19 outbreaks. Learn more. Rapid Screening As part of COVID-19 Vaccination Policy protocols, rapid antigen testing is available on campus. (Availabililty is currently limited). In addition, UWindsor researchers led an on-going on-campus saliva testing research pilot project to quickly identify COVID-19 cases in populations with no reported symptoms. Learn more. Enhanced Cleaning Enhanced cleaning of high-touch point and high traffic areas, and providing disinfection supplies across campus as established by the COVID-19 Custodial Services Action Plan as recommended by health authorities. Learn more. Have a question? Students, Faculty and Staff are invited to send questions via email to returntocampus@uwindsor.ca share tweet save share tweet save Contact Us University Directory Accessibility News Services for Media UWindsor mobile apps Terms & Conditions Policies Manage UWin Account Emergency Services for Students Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on Flickr Follow us on Youtube Follow us on Instagram