Self-Assessment Questionnaire | Return to Campus Skip to main content Coming to campus? Visit this page for important information. University of Windsor Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Search Support UWindsor CLOSE QUICK LINKS Return to Campus Roadmap for Fall Current Students Blackboard UWinsite Student Faculty + Staff UWinsite Finance Alumni + Donors Industry + Community Partners About About UWindsor Office of the President Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Virtual Tour Visitor Information Campus Maps Parking VIEW Magazine Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs International Programs Co-operative Education Continuing Education Support Office of the Registrar Student Awards Office of the Provost Faculties Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences Law Education Nursing Engineering Business Graduate Studies Human Kinetics Science Research COVID-19 Research and Innovation Guidance Vice-President, Research & Innovation Research & Innovation Services Research Partnerships Research Appointments Research Ethics Research Safety Animal Care Research Finance Leddy Library UWill Discover! EPICentre Student Life About Student Life UWindsor Events SoCA Concerts & Events Lancers Varsity Sports University Players Athletics + Recreation Services Student Accessibility Services Residence Food Services Student Support Back to Top FUTURE STUDENTS ask.UWindsor MENU ask.UWindsor FUTURE STUDENTS Return to Campus Return to Campus Health & Safety: COVID-19 Guidelines and Protocols Return to Campus Update: March 31, 2022 Wear a Mask Information for Students Information for Faculty Information for Staff Information about Research Latest News Available and Remote Campus Services Institutional Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic Health & Safety: COVID-19 Guidelines and Protocols Reporting an Illness - Faculty & Staff Self-Assessment Questionnaire QR Code Scanning and Designated Entrances Resource Documents Mental Health & Well-being Supports and Resources Information Sessions Guidelines for Events and Approved Activities on Campus Building and Facilities Protocols Vaccination Policy Take a Jab! Action Group Submit a Question Return to Campus Update: March 31, 2022 Wear a Mask Information for Students Information for Faculty Information for Staff Information about Research Latest News Available and Remote Campus Services Institutional Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic Health & Safety: COVID-19 Guidelines and Protocols Reporting an Illness - Faculty & Staff Self-Assessment Questionnaire QR Code Scanning and Designated Entrances Resource Documents Mental Health & Well-being Supports and Resources Information Sessions Guidelines for Events and Approved Activities on Campus Building and Facilities Protocols Vaccination Policy Take a Jab! Action Group Submit a Question UWindsor Home Return to Campus Health & Safety: COVID-19 Guidelines and Protocols Self-Assessment Questionnaire Self-Assessment Questionnaire Coming to Campus? To access campus you must: be fully vaccinated be partially vaccinated (as per the policy definition) and participating in the rapid antigen testing program have an approved exemption in accordance with the vaccination policy to participate in the rapid antigen testing program have submitted an exemption request in accordance with the vaccination policy and are awaiting a determination of their request and participating in the rapid antigen testing program Here's what you need to do. Prior to visiting the University of Windsor campus, students, employees, volunteers, contractors and visitors must complete a Self-Assessment Questionnaire, which includes providing proof of vaccination through an attestation confirmation code. This is required every day you attend campus. Completing the questionnaire through The Safe Lancer App is the easiest way to obtain the required green (approved) QR code that will be used to scan when entering campus buildings. The questionnaire can also be completed through a webform. Upon completion of the webform version, you can print your approved badge QR code which can be used to scan at QR code scanners every time you enter a campus building. A fillable/printable document (PDF) is also available. Use of this form requires verification of your approved status by a Safety Ambassador (or for employees, a supervisor or manager) stationed at designated building entrances. You may not enter a campus building through any other entrance or proceed past the QR code scanner without verification if using this paper copy. Download the Safe Lancer App from the Google Play (Android) or Apple App Store (iOS). To ensure the Safe Lancer App is updated to the latest version, open the app and tap the University of Windsor Safe Lancer App banner. To manually update, select About/Preferences and then, Data Update. Finally, click the Check for Updates button. Step 1: On app main page click the ?COVID-19 Updates & Self-Assessment? Step 2: Click ?Self-Assessment Tool? Step 3: Click ?Start Self-Assessment?. Read the questions carefully and answer ?Yes? or ?No? and click ?Continue?. You will also need your Vaccination Attestation Confirmation Code. Step 4: Confirm answers and submit. Step 5: Scan your Approved (green) QR Code (badge) when entering campus buildings and designated spaces. RTC Safety Ambassadors may ask to see your badge as part of the screening process. Please note that personal information is private and will not be shared. Read this important information about using the QR code scanners. Self-Assessment Questionnaire Document No mobile device? A Safe Lancer webform or fillable/printable document (PDF) is also available. UPDATED - April 4, 2022 Approved or Denied? Your Self-Assessment will provide either an Approved or Denied result Approved = PROCEED to campus DENIED = DO NOT PROCEED to campus You may proceed to campus You should stay home and self-isolate and complete the Ontario COVID-19 self-assessment and follow the directions provided. Report the reason for your denied badge by emailing the following address: covid19reporting@uwindsor.ca, which will provide you with self-isolation instructions and information regarding your return to campus; and, follow the directions regarding return to campus as outlined in the instruction email, including notifications to others, as appropriate. STAFF/FACULTY All Staff/Faculty will be subject to screening spot checks across campus by assigned Health Screeners. Your supervisor/department will receive notification through UWin Check-In (Safe Lancer QR Code Dashboard for Supervisors) that you have demonstrated your "Approved" Green badge when attending campus "Denied" Red badges/results are sent to your supervisor or department. You must also report (forward to your supervisor) this red badge result and any illness or absence as per the University's reporting protocols. Report the reason for your denied badge by emailing the following address: covid19reporting@uwindsor.ca, which will provide you with self-isolation instructions and information regarding your return to campus; and, follow the directions regarding return to campus as outlined in the instruction email, including notifications to others, as appropriate. STUDENTS All students will be subject to screening spot checks across campus by assigned RTC Safety Ambassadors. Your professor or other authorized university personnel may choose to request to see your completed daily self-assessment prior to admitting you to the classroom or other spaces on campus. Report the reason for your denied badge by emailing the following address: covid19reporting@uwindsor.ca, which will provide you with self-isolation instructions and information regarding your return to campus; and, follow the directions regarding return to campus as outlined in the instruction email, including notifications to others, as appropriate. All students are asked to report any illness requiring an academic accommodation through UWinSite. During the COVID-19 Academic Emergency period, you will not need to submit a medical note to indicate illness of any kind. If you are participating in off-campus or workplace settings, you will be guided by faculty or workplace requirements regarding screening/illness reporting. *Exception for JD and Dual JD programs students, who should follow the Faculty of Law protocols. share tweet save share tweet save Contact Us University Directory Accessibility News Services for Media UWindsor mobile apps Terms & Conditions Policies Manage UWin Account Emergency Services for Students Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on Flickr Follow us on Youtube Follow us on Instagram