Smart campus technology and app support easier wayfinding at UWindsor | DailyNews Skip to main content Coming to campus? Visit this page for important information. University of Windsor Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Search Support UWindsor CLOSE QUICK LINKS Return to Campus Roadmap for Fall Current Students Blackboard UWinsite Student Faculty + Staff UWinsite Finance Alumni + Donors Industry + Community Partners About About UWindsor Office of the President Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Virtual Tour Visitor Information Campus Maps Parking VIEW Magazine Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs International Programs Co-operative Education Continuing Education Support Office of the Registrar Student Awards Office of the Provost Faculties Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences Law Education Nursing Engineering Business Graduate Studies Human Kinetics Science Research COVID-19 Research and Innovation Guidance Vice-President, Research & Innovation Research & Innovation Services Research Partnerships Research Appointments Research Ethics Research Safety Animal Care Research Finance Leddy Library UWill Discover! EPICentre Student Life About Student Life UWindsor Events SoCA Concerts & Events Lancers Varsity Sports University Players Athletics + Recreation Services Student Accessibility Services Residence Food Services Student Support Back to Top FUTURE STUDENTS ask.UWindsor MENU ask.UWindsor FUTURE STUDENTS DailyNews DailyNews In this section Our Top Stories Current Issue All Stories Search DailyNews by date Search DailyNews by topic DailyNews Archive Manage Subscription Contact DailyNews Our Top Stories Current Issue All Stories Search DailyNews by date Search DailyNews by topic DailyNews Archive Manage Subscription Contact DailyNews The new CampusGo app offers accurate and convenient wayfinding of the UWindsor campus. Smart campus technology and app support easier wayfinding at UWindsor Oct 28th, 2021 Navigating the University of Windsor campus is now as simple as following turn-by-turn directions. The University has launched ?CampusGo,? an all-new app that offers accurate and convenient wayfinding of the UWindsor campus. Users can quickly search and find campus buildings, services, and selected classrooms across campus through the easy-to-use app. CampusGo?s intuitive interface also labels designated entrances, exits, and the location of QR scanners in each building as part of the University?s Return to Campus health and safety protocols. CampusGo was created by Mapsted, the world's leading indoor positioning system developers. Indoor navigation is precise to within three metres and requires no WIFI or GPS positioning beacons. The app can be downloaded via the Google Play (Android) or App Store (iOS) marketplaces. The wayfinding technology and interactive campus maps are also available through any mobile or desktop web browser. ?Finding a classroom in a growing institution with over 40 buildings can sometimes be a challenge,? says Jennie Atkins, who along with Emmeline Ventimiglia led the project to bring wayfinding technology to the UWindsor campus with support and implementation from Facility Services and Information Technology teams. ?With CampusGo, you can quickly select your desired destination and it will provide turn-by-turn directions right to the appropriate door.? According to associate vice-president operations Anna Kirby, ?This is incredibly helpful given our revised access to buildings and COVID-19 safety protocols. CampusGo will make for a better on-campus experience for anyone who uses it.? Campus accessibility is also promoted through CampusGo. Accessible entrances and parking are listed, along with general safety and convenience items such as the location of campus emergency call stations and visitor parking. ?We are very excited to be working with the University of Windsor to implement our Location Positioning Technology,? says Mapsted co-founder and chief operating officer Saeedeh Hamidifar. ?Leveraging our patented machine learning and data fusion algorithms will elevate UWindsor?s experience for students and visitors by enabling effortless campus navigation.? The app is an ideal companion to the Safe Lancer App that is required for QR scanning to enter campus buildings. Jennie Atkins Anna Kirby Emmeline Ventimiglia Facility Services IT Services Strategic Priority: Provide an exceptional undergraduate experience share tweet save In Memoriam Student remembered as advocate for mental health External Job Postings Mar 30, 2022 - Full Time Lead Hand - Starbucks Coffee Shop Feb 23, 2022 - Graduate/ Financial Secretary '8' in the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Jan 14, 2022 - Facilities / Equipment / Events Technician Classification "IV" in the Department of Athletics & Recreational Services Internal Job Postings Mar 31, 2022 - Work-Integrated Learning Coordinator ? STEM Classification "VI" in the Department of Co-operative Education & Workplace Partnerships Internal/External Job Postings Mar 30, 2022 - Graphic Designer "VI" in the Department of Public Affairs & Communications Mar 24, 2022 - Classroom Technologist Classification "V" in the Department of Information Technology Services IT Services Impending Google Services Retirement Mar 24, 2022 Cancelled - Planned Internet Service Outage - Wed, Feb 23, from 12 to 3 a.m. Feb 18, 2022 Apply iOS Device Patch Immediately to Macs, iPhones and iPads Feb 11, 2022 Network Maintenance - Service Disruption - Thur, Feb 24 from 6 to 8 a.m. Feb 11, 2022 Cancelled - Planned Internet Service Outage - Wed, Feb 2 from 12 to 3 a.m. Jan 26, 2022 Equipment for Sale Apr 4, 2022 - FILING CABINETS FOR SALE Project Notifications Centre for Engineering Innovation (CEI)-Phase I Power Outage/Charge Lab Renovations, Tuesday, April 5, 2022 at 7:30 a.m. - 2:30 p.m. Jackman Dramatic Art Centre - Water Shutdown/Replace Main Feed Line Valves, Friday, April 1, 2022, 8:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. Centre for Engineering Innovation (CEI)-Phase I Power Outage/Charge Lab Renovations, Tuesday, March 29, 2022 at 7:30 a.m. - 2:30 p.m. Chrysler Hall Tower/University Computer Centre/Essex Hall-Chemical Control Centre/Energy Conversion Centre-Semi-Annual Fire Suppression Inspections, Monday, March 28, 2022 at 8:00 a.m. to Tuesday, March 29, 2022 at 4:00 p.m. Centre for Engineering Innovation (CEI)-Replace Broken Skylight/Access and Alternative Routes Available, Friday March 25, 2022 at 7:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. More share tweet save Contact Us University Directory Accessibility News Services for Media UWindsor mobile apps Terms & Conditions Policies Manage UWin Account Emergency Services for Students Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on Flickr Follow us on Youtube Follow us on Instagram