UWinsite Finance | Finance Department Skip to main content Coming to campus? Visit this page for important information. University of Windsor Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Search Support UWindsor CLOSE QUICK LINKS Return to Campus Roadmap for Fall Current Students Blackboard UWinsite Student Faculty + Staff UWinsite Finance Alumni + Donors Industry + Community Partners About About UWindsor Office of the President Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Virtual Tour Visitor Information Campus Maps Parking VIEW Magazine Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs International Programs Co-operative Education Continuing Education Support Office of the Registrar Student Awards Office of the Provost Faculties Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences Law Education Nursing Engineering Business Graduate Studies Human Kinetics Science Research COVID-19 Research and Innovation Guidance Vice-President, Research & Innovation Research & Innovation Services Research Partnerships Research Appointments Research Ethics Research Safety Animal Care Research Finance Leddy Library UWill Discover! EPICentre Student Life About Student Life UWindsor Events SoCA Concerts & Events Lancers Varsity Sports University Players Athletics + Recreation Services Student Accessibility Services Residence Food Services Student Support Back to Top FUTURE STUDENTS ask.UWindsor MENU ask.UWindsor FUTURE STUDENTS Finance Department Finance Department In this section For Students Student Accounts / Cashiers Student Awards and Financial Aid For Faculty, Staff and Stakeholders Financial Accounting & Reporting Budgets & Financial Services UWinsite Finance Employee News and Updates FAQs Resource Listing Training Getting Help Fraud Alerts Home Office Expenses 2021 Glossary of Policies, Procedures & Forms For Students Student Accounts / Cashiers Student Awards and Financial Aid For Faculty, Staff and Stakeholders Financial Accounting & Reporting Budgets & Financial Services UWinsite Finance Employee News and Updates FAQs Resource Listing Training Getting Help Fraud Alerts Home Office Expenses 2021 Glossary of Policies, Procedures & Forms UWindsor Home Finance Department UWinsite Finance UWinsite Finance *** NOTICE: UWinsite Finance Log in page has been updated. Please click Company Single Sign-On to log in. *** UWinsite Finance is the University of Windsor?s financial information system. It is a grouping of modules that operate independently but work in harmony. The UWinsite Finance modules include: General Ledger Projects - Research and Capital Accounts Payable Accounts Receivable and Billing Self-Service Procurement Expenses Reporting Planning and Budgeting General Ledger (GL) holds the main records of the University and is at the center of UWinsite Finance. All transactions flow through the various modules to arrive at the GL. Since the UWinsite Finance modules operate independently, each has its own unique security and access rules. The modules broadly available to all faculty and staff are iExpenses, the Travel, and Expense management system, and Self-Service Procurement. FAQs Resource Listing Forms & Templates Training Schedule Getting Help share tweet save share tweet save Contact Us University Directory Accessibility News Services for Media UWindsor mobile apps Terms & Conditions Policies Manage UWin Account Emergency Services for Students Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on Flickr Follow us on Youtube Follow us on Instagram